Situation:"I was responsible for developing a machine learning model predicting patient readmissions on a healthcare platform. The model depended on a
MySQL materialized view combining structured patient data from MySQL and unstructured clinical notes from MongoDB. Initially, every incoming patient report
via Kafka triggered a view refresh. Upon closer inspection, I realized frequent refreshes were not necessary—predictions only needed updates after all .
patient data was in, causing unnecessary ETL failures, stale data, and escalating costs."

Task:"My goal was to effectively scope and address this problem, optimizing data freshness, reducing costs, and ensuring accurate, timely predictions,
particularly for critical patient cases."

Action:

Gathered and Confirmed Information: Conducted detailed analysis by reviewing ETL logs, AWS Glue monitoring dashboards, and Flask cache behaviors, 
identifying unnecessary refreshes causing performance issues and high daily costs ($50/day).

Requested Assistance Timely: Engaged AWS support and our DevOps team promptly to validate technical configurations and performance optimization strategies.

Acted Decisively on Own Authority: Quickly moved away from automatic refreshes upon each report. Instead, implemented incremental data injections 
directly into the materialized view using targeted SQL updates:

INSERT INTO patient_readmissions_mv (patient_id, admission_date, notes)
VALUES (?, ?, ?)
ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE admission_date=VALUES(admission_date), notes=VALUES(notes);

Made Difficult Decisions: Chose to dynamically trigger model predictions only when healthcare professionals accessed the dashboard. Additionally, 
instituted a critical-patient-specific refresh interval of every 15 minutes to maintain accuracy and timeliness for urgent cases.

Exercised Exceptional Judgment: Implemented backend freshness validation checks and clear, user-facing alerts via React, communicating the exact 
freshness of predictions transparently to healthcare users.

Result:"The revised approach delivered timely, accurate predictions, particularly benefiting critical patient care, while significantly reducing 
infrastructure costs by 70% (from $50/day to approximately $15/day). Healthcare providers valued the clear, real-time freshness alerts, reinforcing 
trust and improving patient care outcomes. This experience underscored my capability to scope complex problems accurately, apply relevant technical 
expertise decisively, and consistently exercise strong, informed judgment under pressure.
